= acts_as_role

This is a minimalist implementation of roles using a database column to store the roles in plain text. You can specify the role values and a default role that should be used when model is initialized.

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    acts_as_role :role, :values = %w(admin owner user), :default => :user
  end

Use role field to store the user roles. 

  user = User.new
  user.role => "user"
  user.has_role?(:user) => true 

Test roles using has_#{role_column.singularize}? or has_#{role_column.pluralize}? 

  user.has_roles?(:user, :admin) => false

  user.add_roles :owner
  user.has_roles?(:user, :owner) => true

Roles are stored using plain text

  user.roles => "user_owner"

  user.remove_roles(:user)
  user.has_role?(:user) => false
  user.roles => "owner"

Validation - internally there is a roles validator, you can add a :message to customize the validation message

  user.add_roles :not_specified
  user.valid? => false
  user.errors[:roles] => "contains an invalid role"

You can use a different field with different syntax

  class Access < ActiveRecord::Base  
    acts_as_role :flag, :values => %w(owner manager employee), :message => "invalid role"
  end

  access = Access.new
  access.flag => "" (no default role specified)
  access.add_flags(:owner)
  access.has_flag?(:owner) => true
  access.add_flags(:manager)
  access.has_flags?(:manager, :owner) => true
  access.flag => manager_owner
  access.add_flags :invalid
  access.valid? => false
  access.errors[:flag] => "invalid role"

Also you can use is_role to query a custom role

  user = User.new
  user.is_user? => true
  user.is_admin? => false

  access = Access.new
  access.is_owner? => false
  access.is_manager? => false
  access.add_roles :manager
  access.is_manager? => true


== Contributing to has_roles
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Carlos Segura. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

